README.rst, before:

Sound Field Analysis toolbox for Python
=======================================
.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/QULab/sound_field_analysis-py.svg
.. image:: https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/u0koxo5vcitmbghc?svg=true

The *sound\_field\_analysis* toolbox (short: *sfa*) is a Python port of the `Sound Field Analysis Toolbox (SOFiA)
toolbox`_, originally by Benjamin Bernschütz\ `[1]`_. The main goal of the *sfa* toolbox is to analyze, visualize and
process sound field data recorded by spherical microphone arrays. Furthermore, various types of test-data may be
generated to evaluate the implemented functions.


Requirements
------------

We use Python 3.7 for development. Chances are that earlier version will work too but this is currently untested.

The following external libraries are required:

-  `NumPy`_
-  `SciPy`_
-  `Pysofaconventions`_
-  `Jupyter`_ (for running *Notebooks* locally)
-  `Plotly`_ (for plotting)


Installation
------------

For performance and convenience reasons we highly recommend to use
`Conda`_ (miniconda for simplicity) to manage your Python installation.
Once installed, you can use the following steps to create a new environment
with the *sfa* toolbox.

#. Create new Conda environment from the specified requirements:
   ``conda env create --file environment.yml``

#. Activate the environment:
   ``source activate sfa``

#. Install *sfa* from **either** source:

   By cloning (or downloading) the repository **[recommended]**:

   ``git clone https://github.com/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py.git``

   ``cd sound_field_analysis-py/``

   ``pip install -e .``

   From `conda-forge`_ channel **[not recommended - code currently outdated]**:

   ``conda install -c conda-forge sound_field_analysis``

   From PyPI **[Not recommended - code currently outdated]**:

   ``pip install sound_field_analysis``

#. **Optional:** Install additional requirements in case you want to locally run *Jupyter Notebooks*:
   ``conda env update --file environment_jupyter.yml``


Documentation
-------------

Please find the full documentation over at https://appliedacousticschalmers.github.io/sound_field_analysis-py/!


Examples
--------

The following examples are available as Jupyter notebooks, either statically on `GitHub`_ or interactively on
`nbviewer`_. You can of course also simply download the examples and run them locally!


Exp1: Ideal plane wave
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ideal unity plane wave simulation and 3D plot.

`View interactively on nbviewer <https://nbviewer.jupyter
.org/github/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py/blob/master/examples/Exp1_IdealPlaneWave.ipynb>`__

|AE1_img|_

.. |AE1_img| image:: examples/img/AE1_shape.png?raw=true
.. _AE1_img: https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py/blob/master/examples/Exp1_IdealPlaneWave.ipynb


Exp2: Measured plane wave
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A measured plane wave from AZ=180°, EL=90° in the anechoic chamber using a cardioid mic.

`View interactively on nbviewer <https://nbviewer.jupyter
.org/github/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py/blob/master/examples/Exp2_MeasuredWave.ipynb>`__

|AE3_img|_

.. |AE3_img| image:: examples/img/AE3_shape.png?raw=true
.. _AE3_img: https://nbviewer.jupyterorg/github/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py/blob/master/examples/Exp2_MeasuredWave.ipynb


Exp4: Binaural rendering
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Render a spherical microphone array measurement for binaural reproduction. The example shows examples for loading
miro or `SOFA`_ files.

`View interactively on nbviewer <https://nbviewer.jupyter
.org/github/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py/blob/master/examples/Exp4_BinauralRendering.ipynb>`__


Version history
---------------

*v2019.8.15*
    * Change of version number scheme to CalVer
    * Improvement of Exp4
    * Update of read_SOFA_file
    * Update of 2D plotting functions
    * Improvement of write_SSR_IRs
    * Improved environment setup for jupyter notebook
    * Update of miro_to_struct

*2019-07-30 v0.9*
    * Implement SOFA import
    * Update Exp4 to contain SOFA import
    * Delete obsolete Exp3
    * Add named tuple HRIRSignal
    * Implement cart2sph and sph2cart utility functions
    * Add conda environment file for convenient installation of required packages

*2019-07-11 v0.8*
    * Implement Spherical Harmonics coefficients tapering
    * Adaption of associated Spherical Head Filter

*2019-06-17 v0.7*
    * Implement Bandwidth Extension for Microphone Arrays (BEMA)
    * Edit read_miro_struct, named tuple ArraySignal and miro_to_struct.m to load center measurements

*2019-06-11 v0.6*
    * Port of Radial Filter Improvement from SOFiA

*2019-05-23 v0.5*
    * Implement Spherical Head Filter
    * Implement Spherical Fourier Transform using pseudo-inverse
    * Extract real time capable Spatial Fourier Transform
    * Outsource reversed m index function (Exp4)


References
----------

The *sound_field_analysis* toolbox is based on the Matlab/C++ `Sound Field Analysis Toolbox (SOFiA) toolbox`_ by
Benjamin Bernschütz. For more information you may refer to the original publication:

[1] `Bernschütz, B., Pörschmann, C., Spors, S., and Weinzierl, S. (2011). SOFiA Sound Field Analysis Toolbox.
Proceedings of the ICSA International Conference on Spatial Audio <http://spatialaudio
.net/sofia-sound-field-analysis-toolbox-2/>`_

The Lebedev grid generation was adapted from an implementation by `Richard P. Muller <https://github
.com/gabrielelanaro/pyquante/blob/master/Data/lebedev_write.py>`_.

.. _Sound Field Analysis Toolbox (SOFiA) toolbox: http://audiogroup.web.th-koeln.de/SOFiA_wiki/WELCOME.html
.. _[1]: #references
.. _NumPy: http://www.numpy.org
.. _SciPy: http://www.scipy.org
.. _Pysofaconventions: https://github.com/andresperezlopez/pysofaconventions
.. _Jupyter: https://jupyter.org/
.. _Plotly: https://plot.ly/python/
.. _Conda: https://www.continuum.io/downloads
.. _conda-forge: https://conda-forge.github.io
.. _GitHub: examples/
.. _nbviewer: http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py/tree/master/examples/
.. _SOFA: https://www.sofaconventions.org/mediawiki/index.php/SOFA_(Spatially_Oriented_Format_for_Acoustics)

Commit message:

Update internal documentation and string formatting

README.rst, after:

Sound Field Analysis toolbox for Python
=======================================
.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/QULab/sound_field_analysis-py.svg
.. image:: https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/u0koxo5vcitmbghc?svg=true

The *sound\_field\_analysis* toolbox (short: *sfa*) is a Python port of the `Sound Field Analysis Toolbox (SOFiA)
toolbox`_, originally by Benjamin Bernschütz\ `[1]`_. The main goal of the *sfa* toolbox is to analyze, visualize and
process sound field data recorded by spherical microphone arrays. Furthermore, various types of test-data may be
generated to evaluate the implemented functions.


Requirements
------------

We use Python 3.7 for development. Chances are that earlier version will work too but this is currently untested.

The following external libraries are required:

-  `NumPy`_
-  `SciPy`_
-  `Pysofaconventions`_
-  `Jupyter`_ (for running *Notebooks* locally)
-  `Plotly`_ (for plotting)


Installation
------------

For performance and convenience reasons we highly recommend to use `Conda`_ (miniconda for simplicity) to manage your Python installation. Once installed, you can use the following steps to receive and use *sfa*, depending on your use case:

A.  By cloning (or downloading) the repository and setting up a new environment **[recommended]**:

    ``git clone https://github.com/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py.git``

    ``cd sound_field_analysis-py/``

    Create a new Conda environment from the specified requirements:
    ``conda env create --file environment.yml``

    Activate the environment:
    ``source activate sfa``

    **Optional:** Install additional requirements in case you want to locally run the *Jupyter Notebooks* with examples:
    ``conda env update --file environment_jupyter.yml``

B.  From PyPI **[NOT recommended - code outdated]**:

    Install into an existing environment (without example *Jupyter Notebooks*):
    ``pip install sound_field_analysis``

C.  From `conda-forge`_ channel **[NOT recommended - code outdated]**:

    Install into an existing environment:
    ``conda install -c conda-forge sound_field_analysis``


Documentation
-------------

Please find the full documentation over at https://appliedacousticschalmers.github.io/sound_field_analysis-py/!


Examples
--------

The following examples are available as Jupyter notebooks, either statically on `GitHub`_ or interactively on
`nbviewer`_. You can of course also simply download the examples and run them locally!


Exp1: Ideal plane wave
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ideal unity plane wave simulation and 3D plot.

`View interactively on nbviewer <https://nbviewer.jupyter
.org/github/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py/blob/master/examples/Exp1_IdealPlaneWave.ipynb>`__

|AE1_img|_

.. |AE1_img| image:: examples/img/AE1_shape.png?raw=true
.. _AE1_img: https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py/blob/master/examples/Exp1_IdealPlaneWave.ipynb


Exp2: Measured plane wave
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A measured plane wave from AZ=180°, EL=90° in the anechoic chamber using a cardioid mic.

`View interactively on nbviewer <https://nbviewer.jupyter
.org/github/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py/blob/master/examples/Exp2_MeasuredWave.ipynb>`__

|AE3_img|_

.. |AE3_img| image:: examples/img/AE3_shape.png?raw=true
.. _AE3_img: https://nbviewer.jupyterorg/github/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py/blob/master/examples/Exp2_MeasuredWave.ipynb


Exp4: Binaural rendering
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Render a spherical microphone array measurement for binaural reproduction. The example shows examples for loading
miro or `SOFA`_ files.

`View interactively on nbviewer <https://nbviewer.jupyter
.org/github/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py/blob/master/examples/Exp4_BinauralRendering.ipynb>`__


Version history
---------------

*v2019.11.6*
    * Update of internal documentation and string formatting

*v2019.8.15*
    * Change of version number scheme to CalVer
    * Improvement of Exp4
    * Update of read_SOFA_file
    * Update of 2D plotting functions
    * Improvement of write_SSR_IRs
    * Improved environment setup for jupyter notebook
    * Update of miro_to_struct

*2019-07-30 v0.9*
    * Implement SOFA import
    * Update Exp4 to contain SOFA import
    * Delete obsolete Exp3
    * Add named tuple HRIRSignal
    * Implement cart2sph and sph2cart utility functions
    * Add conda environment file for convenient installation of required packages

*2019-07-11 v0.8*
    * Implement Spherical Harmonics coefficients tapering
    * Adaption of associated Spherical Head Filter

*2019-06-17 v0.7*
    * Implement Bandwidth Extension for Microphone Arrays (BEMA)
    * Edit read_miro_struct, named tuple ArraySignal and miro_to_struct.m to load center measurements

*2019-06-11 v0.6*
    * Port of Radial Filter Improvement from SOFiA

*2019-05-23 v0.5*
    * Implement Spherical Head Filter
    * Implement Spherical Fourier Transform using pseudo-inverse
    * Extract real time capable Spatial Fourier Transform
    * Outsource reversed m index function (Exp4)


References
----------

The *sound_field_analysis* toolbox is based on the Matlab/C++ `Sound Field Analysis Toolbox (SOFiA) toolbox`_ by
Benjamin Bernschütz. For more information you may refer to the original publication:

[1] `Bernschütz, B., Pörschmann, C., Spors, S., and Weinzierl, S. (2011). SOFiA Sound Field Analysis Toolbox.
Proceedings of the ICSA International Conference on Spatial Audio <http://spatialaudio
.net/sofia-sound-field-analysis-toolbox-2/>`_

The Lebedev grid generation was adapted from an implementation by `Richard P. Muller <https://github
.com/gabrielelanaro/pyquante/blob/master/Data/lebedev_write.py>`_.

.. _Sound Field Analysis Toolbox (SOFiA) toolbox: http://audiogroup.web.th-koeln.de/SOFiA_wiki/WELCOME.html
.. _[1]: #references
.. _NumPy: http://www.numpy.org
.. _SciPy: http://www.scipy.org
.. _Pysofaconventions: https://github.com/andresperezlopez/pysofaconventions
.. _Jupyter: https://jupyter.org/
.. _Plotly: https://plot.ly/python/
.. _Conda: https://www.continuum.io/downloads
.. _conda-forge: https://conda-forge.github.io
.. _GitHub: examples/
.. _nbviewer: http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/AppliedAcousticsChalmers/sound_field_analysis-py/tree/master/examples/
.. _SOFA: https://www.sofaconventions.org/mediawiki/index.php/SOFA_(Spatially_Oriented_Format_for_Acoustics)
